this question of the moral character of
the left P contrasted to the right has
been covered by other channels other
channels that I really dislike and that
I really think simply not intelligent
enough to handle it but I've heard
various other channels struggle with the
fact like well even one of them I know
it's conservative this sense of what it
is to be a conservative it's kind of
mean isn't mean ultimately if
conservatism is just defined in terms of
a reluctance to accept progress if
that's all it is then conservatives
would be by that definition the
perpetual losers in history that sets up
a definition of left and right whereby
left the left of the people marching
forward and the right of the people
dragging their heels I think that's a
very unfair way to define left and right
but I understand why there what are
doing it so I'm gonna play you a clip of
a debate between Jordan Peterson and
slave voyages Jack and it highlights an
interesting question both
retrospectively and the present tense
about how we distinguish left from right
now surprisingly few people know this
the distinction between left and right
goes back to the French Revolution and
specifically to the seating arrangements
in the era sets I was a parliament that
put together during the French
Revolution and in fact there were many
other political terms that related to
the peculiarities of that room there was
a group of politicians called the Milton
it's and you see this if you again if
you read historical fiction or primary
source documents some of these political
terms kind of lurked around and the
Milton being referred to was literally
an imperfection in the woodworking where
the seats kind of rose up there was a
lump in the floor and Sassoon the seats
Rozelle he had those guys who sit over
the bed by the mountain in German
history too they had one of their
Parliament's and different political
factions were at first identified by the
name of the pub the politicians would
meet in mmm anyway so some of these
nicknames in politics come and go but
the distinction being left in a right
has endured for centuries and it's taken
on different kinds of frankly symbolic
and even psychological significance
we're going to talk about the point that
Slava g-shock makes and Slovakia jack is
not conventionally left-wing himself is
that we can't narrowly focus on
self-discipline on one's own ethnos on
one's own personal purity of conduct or
say taking good care of one's own family
a nurse note even that idea even
rhetoric about the family is considered
right-wing it's considered conservative
this is already an interesting hint that
how we think about left and right today
it doesn't doesn't really make sense but
that's the the custom of our time um he
draws attention to the futility of
focusing on one's responsibility for
one's own life one's own family and so
on if the major problems you're
encountering as an individual as a
family what have you are problems with
the larger society around extremely
common sense naive question here but
what is in trying to set your house in
order you discover that your housing is
in this order precisely because the way
the society is messed up this is obvious
in extreme situation like I hope we
agree to say to somebody in in North
Korea set your house in order no ha ha
but I think in some deeper sense it goes
all sorts for our societies I'm just
repeating what you are telling you see
some kind of a social crisis and I don't
see clearly why insist so much on this
choice because I will give you an
example that I think perfectly does it
how do we usually deal with ecology by
this false personalization you know they
tell you ah what did you do did you put
all the coke cans on the side the Doric
vehicle old paper and so yes we should
do this but you know like I in a way
this is also a very easy way to describe
yourself or like you say okay I do the
recycling show up you know I did my duty
let's go on so I would love to say why
the choice there okay so the pathway
towards adopting individual
responsibilities happens to be a very
individual one but I do believe that the
best bet for most people is to solve the
problems that beset them in their own
lives the ethical problems that beset
them that they know are problems and
that they can set themselves together
well enough so that they can then become
capable of addressing larger scale
problems without falling prey at some of
the errors that characterize let's say
over optimistic and intellectually
arrogant ideologue very bleak let me
close with one thing one of my favorite
quotes from Carl Jung it's actually a
quote that I used at the beginning of my
first book which was called maps of
meaning was that if you take a personal
problem seriously enough you will
simultaneously solve a social problem
and this bears on on your point because
it's not like you're a small family even
the relationship between you and your
wife is immune in some sense to the
broader social problems around you and
so let's say right now there's
tremendous tension between men and women
in the West and that's certainly the
case given the divorce rate let's say
that would be some evidence and the
later and later stages that people are
waiting to become in - you know enter
into permanent relationships there's
there's a real tension there and then if
you do establish a relationship with a
woman or a partner but we'll say a woman
in this particular case you are
instantly faced with all of the
sociological problems in a microcosm in
that relationship and then if you work
those damn problems out if you can work
them out within your relationship then
you can get some insight it's not
complete insight but you can get some
partial insight into what the problem
actually
and get the diagnosis right and you've
moved some small measure forward in
addressing what might constitute the
broader social concern I think this
little anecdotal example of Slava is you
Jack and Peterson crossing swords gives
you a more meaningful way to reflect on
what the differences really are the
strengths and the weakness of
conservatism the strength and the
weakness of the right both is precisely
this narrow focus ultimately on
self-preservation one's own good one's
own obligations one's own family and
this ultimately must seem somewhat
mean-spirited and uncharitable in
contrast to in 2019 the ethos of the
left which is we want to have a society
and when not in which everybody succeeds
everybody flourishes in which the
weakest are helped in which you know the
poorest are encouraged or given health
care given access to education so on and
so forth
it's only from a deeply right-wing
standpoint that it could make sense to
cut taxes and destroy the education and
health care system so that the rich can
pay lower taxes and spend more money on
the welfare of their own families that
is within my lifetime that has been the
major clarion call of conservatism so
remember ultimately I come from Ontario
specifically lived through the so called
common sense revolution of the Mike
Harris government and that is that is
not an unfair summary of what
conservatism came to mean in Ontario
during my lifetime and it has short term
electoral success but in the long term
it's a formula for disaster
aside from celebrating the collapse of
the Soviet Union like the collapse of
communism there's there's really not an
inspiring vision of the future there and
there also isn't fundamentally an ethos
of of being helpful and encouraging and
loving towards one's fellow man instead
if this is the sort of clothes now
that is I think the kind of cultural
psychology of what the distinction of
left and right is today but that's not
what it should be or that's not what it
was as as created by the circumstances
of the French Revolution how far can we
really go if the left defines itself as
the as the party that cares about
everyone the care is about uplifting the
poor and the right defines itself as the
party for caring about oneself for
carrying a boat an arrow a sense of
individualism that includes individual
moral responsibility for sure includes
charity work and those things it
includes take care of your family this
is ultimately I mean you know this seems
to me like an aesthetic assumption
that's gotten out of control this is
kind of counterproductive to any kind of
meaningful discussion of public policy
including for example immigration well
immigration policy doesn't make sense
for the mainstream left or the
mainstream right you get people on the
left you take this ethic of helping the
poorest among us who say they want
completely open borders who say they
want an unlimited number of people to be
able to immigrate from Cambodia and
Mexico or Syrian refugees and so on well
I understand how that's a consistent
kind of extension of this via you know
aesthetic sense of what the left is
supposed to be but in every other way
it's deeply incoherent and on the other
hand I mean the right wing position it's
deeply incoherent with the reality of
America conquering Afghanistan and Iraq
it might be more consistent with
isolationism with America finding its
own business but a country that's built
on genocide and an ever-expanding empire
that doesn't just include Guam and the
Mariana Islands but includes you know
Kabul Afghanistan and so on well you're
taking a responsibility so these things
this Vegas that expenses is deeply
deeply coherent I think for both left
and right what I would point out is that
the original distinction between left
and right created by the French
Revolution was instead
a distinction between those who believed
in reason reason with a capital r versus
those who believed in the value of
culture and tradition so one of the
defining moments for the French
Revolution was the creation of the
metric system creation the metric system
proceeded from purely abstract rational
thought they said okay what's the
difference between the North Pole and
the equator we're gonna divide that into
a consistent number of units and we're
gonna create a new measure that has
nothing to do with any particular
historical king or the legend of Jesus
and is real it doesn't connect anything
this is going to be straight-up abstract
rational reasoning and they devised a
whole new calendar they created a
calendar that had nothing to do with
Christianity and nothing to do with the
Roman Empire and in this way the the
fundamental concept of the left in the
French Revolution was that the the dead
weight of millennia of cultural
accretions
could be cast aside and that reason
reason with a capital R could create a
new and better ordered world for
everybody for the rich and the poor
alike that we could get rid of crass
superstition and the accretion of these
things and this put the right over the
Conservatives not in the role of
opposing progress but in the role of
being the people who could appreciate
culture who could appreciate tradition
and let's be clear culture doesn't
necessarily have to be backward looking
it can be forward looking it can be
creative but can be also based on
learning from the experience of others
of saying like today hey look at Denmark
do you think Denmark maybe has a better
health care system do you think Sweden
maybe has better prisons do you think
taiwan has a better system of referenda
you know of voting and direct democracy
learning empirically from your own
traditions from your own history that's
one thing learning from the cultural
traditions history and experience of
others of being the more empirically
based bottom-up motive of thinking as
opposed to this abstract procedure from
the top down guys
we live in an era where political
parties are bought and sold by
businessmen and that is the reason why
mainstream politics has become
philosophically bankrupt and it's our
job
yours and mine to generate a new
philosophy a new ethos in politics left
right and center right here on the
Internet right here on YouTube
[Music]